# digitalemigre

The Digital Émigré is a web-based resource for exploring the periodical literature of the 20th century Russian emigration. As an online repository of Russian journals and magazines it makes accessible a textual corpus in a curated and standardized machine-readable archive that is accompanied by a database featuring the article-level bibliographical information of these journals. Allowing for new kinds of distant reading of the text and the evaluation of genres, authors and their social communities, Digital Emigre encourages new approaches to journals as mass phenomena that involved thousands of authors and was deeply rooted in the intellectual life of the Russian emigration with its dynamic distribution of symbolic capital through the circulation of social roles, gender dynamics and cycles of re-print. Digital Émigré thereby bridges philological approaches, cultural studies enquiry and sociological questions about intellectual networks and communities of artistic production. 

Our pilot site will contains four titles (approximately 160 [30 Sintaksis + 70 Kontinent + 35 Novosel’e + 25 Novyi zhurnal] issues and around 3,700 [ca. 2,500 Sint and Kont + 521 Novosel’e and 750 NJ]  articles). This selection provides insight into emigre literary and everyday culture at both the beginning and end of the Cold War, bookending the post-WW2 Russian diaspora experience. At this time, Digital Emigre provides article-level metadata and full text, machine readable versions of articles. Digital Émigré is intended to scale, and will eventually contain additional titles and new functionalities. We invite Slavists to contribute their data to this project, the affordances of which will grow with the increase of data. As a digital humanities project, Digital Emigre aims to foster contact between scholars working with Russian and other Slavic languages internationally, especially through the discussion of issues of interoperability and creating multilingual digital research environments.

Plain text versions of issues are located in this GitHub repostiroy, in the folder "Full text"
